and the US Secretary of State says
Israel has an obligation to minimize
civilian casualties in Gaza Anthony
blinkin made those comments at his end
ofe press conference and said Washington
will focus on bringing the war to an end
as quickly as
possible we continue to believe that
Israel does not have to choose between
removing the threat of Hamas and
minimizing the toll on civilians in Gaza
it has an obligation to do both and it
has a strategic interest to do both
we're more determined than ever to
ensure that out of this horrific tragedy
comes a moment of
possibility for Israelis for
Palestinians for the region to live in
lasting peace and Lasting
security that out of this
darkness comes
light let's bring in Mike Hannah he's
joining us live from Washington DC and
what else did we hear from Secretary of
State Anthony blinken Mike he was also
so asked about what it would take for
the us to stop vetoing resolutions at
the UN Security Council wasn't
he yes he was and he didn't answer that
question directly he went on to say that
the latest resolution which is now being
put on hold again uh deals with
humanitarian Affairs and the US is
insistent that it doesn't want any
resolution passed that will not help the
provision of a humanitarian Aid
to the people of Gaza so he didn't
answer that question directly just as he
didn't answer a question which was put
to him directly does the US have a red
line when it comes to the manner of
Israel's operations in Gaza and the
occupied West Bank once again he didn't
answer that directly he continued to say
what has been the line offered by the
Biden Administration that Israel has a
right and indeed duty to take operations
against Hamas at the same time it has a
right and a strategic duty to be able to
minimize uh the cost of Civilian
casualties he describe the uh this as
vitally important how Israel conducts
its operations so the Secretary of State
like the Biden Administration walking
the thin line here attempting to show
that it cares about civilian casualties
and is indeed deeply concerned about
them at the same time wanting to
publicly back Israel in its ongoing
operations just to add the Secretary of
State also spoke about over the year the
US has strengthened its alliances uh
throughout the globe with his partner
organizations however another question
that he would not answer is to what
extent the US ongoing unquestioning
support of Israel is impacting on these
Global alliances and Mike we've also
heard from President Biden who's been
speaking what does he had to
say well we heard from President Biden
on the subject of a Colorado Supreme
Court decision in terms of which it
ruled on an unprecedented basis uh that
former president Trump cannot stand on
the ballot in uh Colorado because of an
1868 uh resolution in terms of which
anybody who takes Parts in Acts of in
Insurrection cannot hold an elected
office now President Biden was asked
about this first of all he said yes he
had has no doubt that Donald Trump took
part in an Insurrection however on the
issue as to whether this should
disqualify him from standing in the
Colorado ballot that said President
Biden is something that's up for the
courts to decide he doesn't want to get
caught in the legal e of this argument
which very clearly is going to go all
the way to the Supreme Court which just
to add the Supreme Court has already
accepted a brief from the special
prosecutor investigating Donald by
in terms of Donald Trump in terms of
ruling on the question of his immunity
now this is in regard to another case
but clearly it has to do with the
Colorado case as well first of all the
level of insurrection whether it can be
applied against Donald Trump secondly
the question of whether there is any
presidential immunity for president
Trump for ACT heed while in office so in
all likelihood we are going to see a US
Supreme Court maybe binding these two
matters together and ruling and it does
appear as a matter of urgency ruling on
both matters immunity and whether or not
Donald Trump can be kicked off that
Colorado ballot at the same time all
right Mike thank you very much for that
uh Mike Han with the latest on both of
those stories live in Washington DC